# TASTES: A Trend-Adaptive Strategy for Tracklist Expansion on Spotify
With the continuous rise of digital music streaming platforms, the demand for more adaptive and innovative music recommendation systems has grown exponentially. Spotify, a global leader in this space, continuously strives to provide dynamic functionalities that connect millions of listeners to the right musical content. Aiming to explore new ways of enhancing music discovery on these platforms, we introduce TASTES, a novel sequential recommendation approach for playlist continuation tasks on Spotify. TASTES is an interest expansion tool free of genre taxonomy that leverages a dynamic multifaceted model of the user’s inclinations across prevailing musical categories in their hand-curated playlists, following the user’s evolving trends into unexplored frontiers of their musical taste. The strategy employs Spotify’s Web API services for direct integration with the application, leveraging its features to enhance the user’s discovery experience. To evaluate our proposed approach, we conducted a 30-day within-subjects study with 20 participants, comparing TASTES’ aptitude for playlist continuation and interest expansion against a baseline strategy employing Spotify’s recommendation method. The strategies were evaluated according to the accuracy and diversity of the suggestions produced and the overall user experience provided, through both quantitative metrics and user-informed assessment. The study results show that TASTES does not demonstrate relevant improvement over Spotify’s approach as a musical interest expansion tool. However, the strategy proved more capable than its counterpart at generating relevant suggestions within the user’s preferences and providing a more satisfying music discovery experience, in cases where speech level and content are less relevant factors to the listener.
